Unstoppable organizations

Our vision is to make decentralized organizations widespread
Our ﬁrst step was to develop an extremely easy to use product on top of the Ethereum blockchain that lets everyone run decentralized organizations. Now we have validated the concept, the market interest and most importantly, the main hurdles to realize our vision. And we are introducing the Aragon Network to overcome them.
Why the Aragon Network
We have ﬁgured out the two main hurdles to make decentralized organizations widespread: upgradeability and decentralized arbitration. Making organizations upgradeable is key, so they can last as long as the Ethereum chain is up. Secondly, providing a way to resolve human disputes that smart contracts don’t cover nor understand is a must.
Our answer to those problems, and many other future problems that require network scale and cannot be solved in an individual manner, is the Aragon Network.
What it does
The Aragon Network (AN) will be the ﬁrst DAO whose goal is to act as a digital jurisdiction that makes it extremely easy and friendly for organizations, entrepreneurs and investors to operate.
The Aragon Network will let organizations opt-in to it and use the services it'll provide. Moreover, it'll provide a built-in governance system so the organizations using it will decide which services are provided, their cost, and other parameters.
The ﬁrst services we want to provide are automatic contract upgrades and a decentralized court service.
Organizations mint tokens by paying a price for them to the Network, which will be able to allocate those funds to the service providers that provide the mentioned services.
Current progress
We have built Aragon, the easiest and most complete way of running an organization on Ethereum.
We have released both a desktop client (for macOS, Linux and Windows) and a browser version. Both work on the Kovan and Ropsten testnets. We have launched 3 versions of the software, featuring community-requested enhancements like ERC20 token support—so you can govern your Aragon organization with an existing token— or bylaw approval by using multi-sig.
Moreover, there has been an extremely positive community acceptance for Aragon:

ANT sale starts:
Founding Team

LUIS CUENDE Project Lead

JORGE IZQUIERDO Tech Lead

Background
Luis and Jorge met when they were 15 years old, and immediately started building products together.
At the age of 17, they prototyped a fully decentralized Internet replacement by using mesh networks.
Luis has been recognized as a [30 Under 30 by Forbes] and [Innovator Under 35 by the MIT].

Token Distribution

Purchasers

Long term endowment/ Foundation

Early contributors and founders

Founders have 2 year vesting, with 6 months cliff

Early contributors have 6 months vesting, with 3 months cliff

Intended use of revenue
OPERATIONS MARKETING LEGAL DEVELOPMENT

More information
For further information about the Aragon project, the Aragon dapp and the Aragon Network, check: Aragon website | Aragon blog | Aragon community | Aragon Network whitepaper

