Decibel.LIVE: A Decentralized Noise Pollution Monitoring and Incentive Platform ∗

https://www.decibel.live

Vijay Kandy and Shane Loomb
{vijay,shane}@decibel.live March 25, 2017

ABSTRACT
Noise pollution is one of the leading causes which adversely aﬀect the well-being and quality of life of residents in urban areas. In this paper we present Decibel.LIVE, a blockchain based decentralized platform to monitor urban noise and compensate residents living around the noise sites. With the Decibel.LIVE smartphone app, citizens can measure their personal exposure to noise using smartphones as noise sensors and report excess noise to business owners responsible for the noise sites over private encrypted channels. The platform also implements a settlements infrastructure based on blockchain technology which enables business owners to compensate residents aﬀected by noise in real-time. The platform aggregates noise levels in a given region and presents visual noise propagation models which can be used by communities and local noise enforcement oﬃcers to enforce noise guidelines.
1. INTRODUCTION
Noise is often described as unwanted sound which is unpleasant and disruptive to hearing. It aﬀects quality of life because it interferes with activities like sleep, relaxation, conversation or listening to music, TV, radio or natural sounds.
In recent decades, increases in population have also led to increases in traﬃc, construction, demolition and other noise Noise pollution is a common problem in urban environments, aﬀecting human behavior, health and even children’s cognitive development.
Typically, cities and towns have established guidelines on noise levels allowed in residential areas. Local laws and bylaws may restrict general construction and other sources of noise depending on the neighborhood, commercial zones,
∗This is a draft release. A ﬁnal version will be published when the application is deployed to Ethereum mainnet.

time of day and days of week such as weekends and holidays. Cities may employ noise abatement inspectors to enforce noise guidelines. However, proving noise variance when code violations occur isn’t easy with existing methods. Frustrated residents end up calling local bylaw enforcement or noise control oﬃcers. However, without any proof of code violation there’s not much a noise control oﬃcer can do.
There is both objective and subjective evidence for the evidence of non-auditory eﬀects of noise on health and wellbeing which are caused by exposure to noise [13]. Exposure to levels above 40 dB(A) begins to inﬂuence well being and levels above 60 dB(A) are considered detrimental to health. There is good evidence, largely from laboratory studies, that noise exposure impairs performance [8]. Noise exposure during sleep may increase blood pressure, heart rate and ﬁnger pulse amplitude as well as body movements. There may also be after-eﬀects during the day following disturbed sleep; perceived sleep quality, mood and performance in terms of reaction time are all decreased following sleep disturbed by noise [14].
In this paper we present Decibel.LIVE, a novel approach to noise pollution monitoring using blockchain technology and smartphones. Leveraging the decentralized nature of the blockchain and the continuous climb in smartphone ownership and internet usage, we present an open and low-cost platform to monitor noise pollution.
2. NOISE ASSESSMENT
Lisez Euler, lisez Euler, c’est notre matre tous. — Pierre-Simon Laplace
This section summarizes noise measurement techniques particularly environment noise. We review noise measurement techniques and tools to capture noise data.
Sound or noise is the result of pressure variations, or oscillations, in an elastic medium (e.g., air, water, solids), generated by a vibrating surface. Sound propagates in the form of longitudinal waves, involving a succession of compressions and rarefactions in the elastic medium [6]. Appendix A gives a glossary of acoustic terminology.
As sound waves travel outward from the source, their intensity (loudness) expressed as watts per square meter (W/m2 ) steadily decreases due to several natural phenomena such as spreading with distance, absorption by the atmosphere and wind and temperature changes. In a free ﬁeld, the intensity and sound pressure at a given point, at a distance r (in meters) from the source, is expressed by [6]:

1

Figure 1: Attenuation rate at 6dBA per doubling of the distance.

p2 = ρcI = ρcW

(1)

4πr2

where ρ and c are the air density and speed of sound respec-

tively.

From the preceding equation, if the sound pressure level,

Lm, is measured at some reference distance, rm, from the noise source then the sound pressure level at some other

distance, r, may be estimated using [1]:

r

Lp

=

Lm

−

20log10

( rm

)

(2)

It follows that in free ﬁeld conditions, the noise level de-

creases by 6 dB each time the distance between the source

and the observer doubles (See Figure 1).

However, free-ﬁeld conditions don’t exist in urban envi-

ronments so, in general the equation relating sound pressure

level and sound power level is modiﬁed to account for the

presence of reﬂecting surfaces.

In the near ﬁeld where distance from the source is equal

to about a wavelength of sound or equal to three times

the largest dimension of the sound source (whichever is the

larger), the sound ﬁeld does not decrease by 6 dB each time

the distance from the source is increased (as it does in the

far ﬁeld).

Our focus is the far ﬁeld of a source which begins where

the near ﬁeld ends and extends to inﬁnity. This is the ﬁeld

where the citizens aﬀected by noise pollution reside. Note

that the transition from near to far ﬁeld is gradual in the

transition region. In the far ﬁeld, the direct ﬁeld radiated

by most machinery sources will decay at the rate of 6 dB

each time the distance from the source is doubled. For line

sources such as traﬃc noise, the decay rate varies between

3 dB and 4 dB [6].

2.1 Measuring environmental noise dB(A)
The basic unit of measurement for environmental noise, as recommended by ISO 1996/1, is the dB(A). Noise emission limits are also usually expressed in dB(A). Noise levels may be measured at any moment, but noise levels vary widely with time, e.g., traﬃc noise is higher at noon than at midnight and higher still during the morning and evening rush

hours. Therefore a single dB(A) measurement isnt a very good indicator of noise pollution. A much better indication is a logarithmic average, LAeq,T which is the metric of choice for measuring exposure to noise.
LAeq,T is the equivalent continuous dB(A) level which has the same energy as the original ﬂuctuating noise for the same given period of time T and is deﬁned as [12]:

1

LAeq,T

=

10log10

( T

T 0

pA(t)2 p02

dt)

(3)

where pA(t) is obtained from applying A-weighting ﬁlter to the raw acoustic signal p(t) and p0 is a standard reference value corresponding to the minimal audible acoustic signal (20µP a in air). The raw acoustic signal p(t) is ﬁltered (A-weighting) to compute the relative loudness of sound as perceived by the human ear. A weighting is (formally deﬁned standards IEC 61672-1 and ANSI 1.43) in the analog or frequency domain and converted to a time domain digital ﬁlter, normally done with z-transform or bilinear transform.
Zero dB(A) is considered the point at which a person begins to hear sound[3]. A soft whisper at 1 meter measures at 30 dB(A), a busy freeway at 15 meters at around 80 dB(A), and a chain saw can reach 110 dB(A) or more at operating distance. Brief exposure to noise levels exceeding 120 dB(A) without hearing protection may even cause physical pain.
Decibel.LIVE smartphone app implements ﬁltering to produce dB(A) events.

2.2 Techniques for capturing noise levels
Techniques to monitor noise in urban areas vary based on jurisdictions. Typically, noise measurements in urban areas are carried out by designated oﬃcers or consultants who collect data at a particular location using a sound level meter or similar microphone-equipped device. However, the measuring sessions take place only at few accessible spots and during short time intervals (e.g., 30 minutes).
There are a number of limitations with such approaches. Noise mapping campaigns are expensive due to need of expertise and human resources, the deployment of sound level meter devices and the processing eﬀort. Also, data collection at sparse locations and at speciﬁc times often produce computational models with an unknown error margins.

2.2.1 Alternative Approaches
Over the last few years, smartphone adoption has been rising worldwide[10]. Modern smartphones have signiﬁcant computational power, always-on internet connectivity and built-in sensors such as microphones, cameras, global positioning system (GPS) receiver, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and proximity and light sensors making them as sensors carried by humans rather than placed at static locations. Smartphone developers now oﬀer many sound measurement applications that are accurate and reliable to be used to assess occupational noise exposures[7]. This has given rise to a low-cost alternative to traditional large-scale, costly and diﬃcult to manage sensing infrastructure based on sensor networks.
One such novel implementation is NoiseTube[9] which is a mobile application platform that monitors noise pollution involving the general public. Citizens measure their personal exposure to noise in their everyday environment by using GPS-equipped mobile phones as noise sensors. VANET[11]

2

takes a diﬀerent approach by using a mesh network composed of mobile phones for detecting noise and transporting noise data. These projects show that smartphones can be used eﬀectively as noise sensors to monitor noise pollution.
3. ETHEREUM BLOCKCHAIN
TCP implementations will follow a general principle of robustness: be conservative in what you do, be liberal in what you accept from others.
— Jon Postel, RFC: 793, Transmission Control Protocol
In the strictest sense, a blockchain 1 is a type of database that is shared across nodes geographically distributed in a network. No single entity owns the data on a blockchain and the design of a blockchain makes it infeasible to modify data once it’s published on a public blockchain like Ethereum.
We have chosen Ethereum blockchain as the platform for Decibel.LIVE service.
3.1 Why Ethereum?
For Decibel.LIVE, the primary use of blockchain is as a shared public database. We want any user of Decibel.LIVE to be able to submit a transaction to the blockchain. The transaction propagates throughout the network and is eventually committed into a consistent ordered ledger.
Any party can view all the transactions committed on the blockchain. If any party’s view includes a transaction tx, then every party’s view will also include tx after a maximum time bound. Therefore we need a time bound, ∆, which bounds the maximum delay round trip time for a blockchain transaction such that if a party P1 submits a transaction tx at time T, then all parties have the same view of conﬁrmed transaction tx within time T + ∆.
Our choice of Ethereum as blockchain platform is due to the following:
1) Ethereum [15] is one of the biggest public blockchains with over 6,000 full nodes running as of this writing [5].
2) Blocks are conﬁrmed in a few seconds, typically around 15-17 seconds 2.
3) Ethereum also provides a Turing-complete language called Solidity which is used to write smart contracts.
Smart contracts are programs which consist of data declarations and high-level functions. Users interact with a smart contract by publishing a transaction containing a procedure call, including the address of the contract, the name of the function to invoke, and arguments to pass.
A user submits a transaction tx by paying a gas fee. The gas price is the cost of executing the smart contract code on Ethereum blockchain.
3.2 State Channels
While blockchains as distributed ledgers have proven to be successful at low transaction volumes, scalability is a concern. As blocks are added to Ethereum blockchain every 12
1The terms blockchain and distributed ledger are often treated as synonyms in the industry even though blockchain is a speciﬁc type of distributed ledger 2https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/09/14/on-slow-and-fastblock-times/

seconds on average, the Ethereum transaction rate is slower than that of a typical centralized database.
Also, storing every transaction in a smart contract can be expensive due to the gas price.
State channels are a promising approach[2] addressing the scaling problem by moving some of the transactions oﬀ chain, while preserving the systems decentralized structure and strong integrity guarantees.
Instead of submitting every transaction to the blockchain, state channels employ the blockchain to ﬁrst establish a shared deposit between two parties. The parties interact directly and communicate with the blockchain only to close channels or to resolve disputes between the parties. Therefore state channels dramatically increase the transaction rate while preserving all the beneﬁts of the blockchain.
A state channel χP1→P2 between two parties P1 and P2 is created on chain using a hashed time locked contract CP reimage which acts as an escrow. A channel is initialized when party P1 creates a conditional commitment (a micropayment or a bid etc.) by sending a hash h to preimage contract CP reimage such that h = H(σ) is the hash of a secret string σ only known to party P1. The channel is valid until time TExpiry.
The state of the channel is concluded in one of three ways:
1) When party P1 closes the channel by sending a ﬁnal commitment and publishing the preimage σ to CP reimage.
2) When party P2 closes the channel by publishing the latest commitment it received to CP reimage.
3) Or in case of a dispute when one or both parties are not in agreement of the latest state of the commitment. Typically parties establish dispute resolution policies and may employ a arbiter contract.
We denote a state channel between two parties P1 and P2 as

P1 −−−−c−om −−m−i−tm−e−n−t−−→ P2

(4)

CP reimage[h,TExpiry ]

where party P1 makes a commitment to party P2 an action denoted by commitment (a micropayment or a bid etc.) by publishing the preimage σ of hash h = H(σ) before time TExpiry .

4. DECIBEL.LIVE ARCHITECTURE

I often say that when you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you know something about it; but when you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meagre and unsatisfactory kind; it may be the beginning of knowledge, but you have scarcely, in your thoughts, advanced to the stage of science, whatever the matter may be.
— Lord Kelvin, Electrical Units of Measurement

Decibel.LIVE is a synthesis of ideas presented in the previous two sections. The platform consists of two distinct components:
1) Smartphone app to capture noise levels and store compensation transactions with the built-in wallet.
2) DApp (short for decentralized application) consists of:

3

Table 1: Noise Collection Fields

Field

Type Description

benef iciaryId string represents a resident

lat

decimal latitude

long

decimal longitude

db

integer db(A) level

timestamp integer UNIX timestamp

a) a smart contract CDecibelLive. 3
b) Bel (ß), an ERC20 token built on top of Ethereum.
c) an API to interact with the smart contract on the blockchain.
d) a mesh routing network to link and manage secure oﬀ-chain channels.
4.1 Smartphone app
The Decibel.LIVE app is available for free and can be installed on GPS equipped smartphones. A beneficiary uses Decibel.LIVE app to monitor noise and send noise events in JSON format to the initiator over the secure Telehash channel.
4.1.1 Gathering Noise Data
The Decibel.LIVE app collects ﬁve ﬁelds as shown in table 1 including benef iciaryId representing a beneficiary, geolocation (lat, long) where noise sample was captured, the noise level in dB(A) (db), and the time when the noise was captured (timestamp). No additional information is captured.
The app measures the loudness level of the captured environmental sound at 22500 Hz, 16 bits/second at a chosen interval. The app contains a real-time signal processing module which applies inﬁnite impulse response (IIR) and computes LAeq,T in dB(A) as the primary indicator of noise pollution. IIR ﬁlters are used as they tend to mimic the performance of traditional analog ﬁlters and make use of feedback.
The app also takes into account two common noise indicators, Lnight and Lden which represent the equivalent sound levels averaged over the night only (to assess sleep disturbance) and over the whole day, respectively.
These values on the A-weighted dB scale are used in the payout settlement algorithm (see Algorithm 1).
4.1.2 Storing Noise Data
Noise events collected on all secure channels are stored in a local database and persisted on IPFS4 periodically. Events are organized by noise contract and beneﬁciary:
/DecibelLIVE/{:deedId}/events/{:beneficiaryId}
At any time, payout settlement can be veriﬁed using the noise events and policies in any noise contract CNoise even after the contract becomes inactive.
4.2 The DApp
3Currently the contract is deployed on Ropsten Testnet at: 0XBD29DD4534F2DD0A8B5F4AA366A02451795FF09D 4https://ipfs.io/

Figure 2: Mesh network of secure channels connecting initiator, beneﬁciaries, and Preimage contract.
The dApp consists of a smart contract which we denote here as CDecibelLive and a web based API5 to provide read and write access to the contract.
There are four types of identities in the Decibel.LIVE platform that interact with CDecibelLive contract – Initiator, Beneﬁciary, Noise Smart Contract and Contract Monitor.
4.2.1 Initiator
An initiator is an individual or business responsible for the noise site. Every initiator is assigned a wallet within the Decibel.LIVE platform. The wallet consists of a secret-key sk, a public-key pk derived from the secret key, and unique Ethereum address ainitiator = (pk, sk) constructed from the public-key.
An initiator creates a smart contract for monitoring noise at a noise site.
4.2.2 Beneﬁciary
5The live site is at https://www.decibel.live and connects to Ethereum Mainnet. The test site is at https://test.decibel.live and connects to Ethereum Testnet

4

A beneficiary is any party (i.e., residents, other businesses) aﬀected by noise originating from initiator’s noise site. Every beneﬁciary is also assigned a wallet consisting a secret-key sk , a public-key pk derived from the secret key, and unique Ethereum address abeneficiary = (pk , sk ) constructed from the public-key.
4.2.3 Noise Smart Contract
CDecibelLive creates and deploys new noise smart contracts on behalf of initiators. A noise contract which we denote as CNoise encapsulates information about the noise site such as the location (latitude and longitude coordinates), Ethereum addresses of N beneﬁciaries ab1eneficiary...aNbeneficiary conﬁrmed by Decibel.LIVE as residents living within an area of radius r meters from the noise site. Following are the attributes of a noise contract.
// Reference to Decibel.LIVE system address decibel;
// Defines a location reference. Location // coordinates are stored multiplying by // 10^6 (i.e., coordinates have 6 digits // after the decimal point) int32 lat; int32 long;
// contract valid from (Unix timestamp) uint8 beginsAt;
// contract valid till (Unix timestamp) uint8 endsAt;
// Refers to the initiator InitiatingParty initiatingParty;
// contract id bytes32 deedId;
// A dictionary of beneficiaries with // beneficiaryIds as keys mapping (bytes32 => BeneficiaryParty)
public beneficiaryParties;
// Store keys separately bytes32[] beneficiaryIds;
// Current state of the contract State public state;
// payout policies per currency and base unit // set in the deed PayoutPolicy[] payoutPolicies;
An initiator creates a noise contract by ﬁlling out a contract template from the web or mobile application. The platform uses an implementation of smart contract templates[4] to create and deploy noise contracts. In essence, CDecibelLive uses a creational pattern and acts as a factory to create new instances of CNoise on behalf of an initiator. Following method in CDecibelLive creates a new noise contract.
function newDeed( bytes32 _deedId,

Table 2: Example payout policies

Day During Threshold dB(A) Payout

Sat 6AM - 5PM

60 - 70

ß1/min

Sun 6AM - 5PM

60 - 70

ß1.50/min

Sun 7PM - 11PM

60 - 70

ß5/min

address _initiatingParty, Holding.Currency _currency, uint256 _initialBalance, int32 _lat, int32 _long ) public onlyDecibel returns(address) { Deed deed = new Deed(_deedId, _initiatingParty, _currency, _initialBalance, _lat, _long);
deeds[_deedId] = deed; deedIds.length++; deedIds[deedIds.length - 1] = _deedId; return (deed); }
The modiﬁer onlyDecibel ensures that new noise contracts can be created through CDecibelLive only by the Decibel.LIVE platform.
4.2.4 Contract Monitor
A monitor is a local authority that wishes to monitor noise at a particular site in real time. A monitor is also assigned a wallet consisting of a key pair and unique Ethereum address amonitor = (pk , sk ) constructed from the public-key. However, a monitor is a read-only observer in the system.
4.2.5 Bel token (ß)
The DApp platform uses Bel token (ß), an ERC20-compliant token built on top of Ethereum, as the unit of compensation on the blockchain-based platform. Within Decibel.LIVE, initiators deﬁne compensation policies using Bel tokens. A beneficiary receives compensation in the form of Bel tokens. Bels can exchanged on a crypto currency exchange or can be reused on the platform.
The distribution of Bels and the token supply is determined by a smart contract deployed on Ethereum.
4.2.6 Payout Policies
An initiator also declares incentives in the form of compensation when noise exceeds a certain threshold at certain times during the day (or night) by hour(s) of day and day(s) of week. Such payout policies are encapsulated in CNoise by an initiator when a noise contract is created (see Table 2). When the contract becomes active, the policies can not be changed.
The payout settlement algorithm (see Algorithm 1) evaluates every incoming noise event as per the payment policies in a noise contract.
4.2.7 Noise Contract Expiration
A noise contract expires when endsAt block.timestamp. block is a built-in Solidity property and block.timestamp

5

gives the Unix timestamp of the latest block. Following method in CNoise expires a noise contract 6.
function expire() onlyDecibel inState(State.Active)
{ if(endsAt >= block.timestamp) { expired(); state = State.Inactive; }
}
4.2.8 Noise Contract Cancellation
An initiator can abort a noise contract before it becomes active. Both web and mobile applications provide means to abort a noise contract if it’s not yet in Active state. The modiﬁer inState(State.Created) ensures such guarantees.
function abort() onlyDecibel inState(State.Created)
{ aborted(); state = State.Inactive;
}
4.2.9 State Channel
Decibel.LIVE uses Telehash7, an encrypted mesh network protocol for communication between the initiator and each beneficiary. Telehash enables a completely distributed, decentralized communication mechanism that doesn’t rely on on centralized or federated servers.
When a noise contract CNoise becomes active, the initiator and every beneficiary of the contract is assigned a unique Telehash address known as a hashname. A hashname is a 32-byte string that corresponds to the SHA-256 hash of one or more public keys. A link or a channel is created connecting the initiator to every beneficiary of the contract. All messages exchanged on a channel are encrypted end-to-end all of the time using forward secrecy.
CP reimage creates a new channel on behalf of an initiator with an opening balance of ßb and hash h = H(σ) where σ is secret chosen by the initiator. ßb is the maximum amount the initiator is willing to pay while the contract is active. The beneficiary joins the channel after conﬁrming the owner of the channel using ecrecover function in Solidity.
address initiatorPK = ecrecover(h, r, s, v)
where r, s, v represents the signature of initiator’s transaction.

a1initiator

−−−−−−−−ßb−−−−−−→
CP reimage[h,TExpiry ]

ab2enef iciary

(5)

The Decibel.LIVE app captures loudness of noise on a
beneficiary’s smartphone, computes and sends LAeq,T events
6Currently the Decibel.LIVE platform invokes expire() method using a scheduled job. In future versions, we plan on using an Oracle service to execute methods at a scheduled future time. 7https://github.com/telehash

in JSON format over this channel to the initiator. Each noise event from a beneficiary is evaluated and if eligible, a payout commitment is sent from the initiator. The beneficiary’s balance in the wallet is updated in real time.
A monitor may observe noise events events originating from a site in real time by establishing a channel to the initiator.

am 0 onitor −−−−−−ßb−−−−→ a1initiator −−−−−−ßc−−−−→ a2beneficiary

CP [h ,TExpiry ]

CP [h ,TExpiry ]

(6)

where CP is the preimage contract.

4.2.10 Compensation Settlement
The LAeq,T events are input into the payout settlement algorithm (Algorithm 1). Each incoming event is checked against the payout policies declared in the associated noise contract. If an LAeq,T event is eligible for compensation, the beneficiary’s balance is updated on the channel in realtime.
When the contract expires, the balances on the channel are published on CDecibelLive permanently recording transfer of funds.

Algorithm 1 Payout Settlement

1: [C1...Cn] ← GetNoiseContracts(CDecibelLive)

2: for i ← 1 to n do

3: while Ci is active do

4:

P olicySeti ← GetPolicies(Ci)

5:

Evaluate f (P olicySeti)

6:

for all noise events in ξ do

7:

if f ( , P olicySeti) is payable then

8:

payouti ← Eligible( , P olicySeti)

9:

TransferFunds(CDecibelLive, Ci, payouti)

10:

end if

11:

end for

12: end while

13: end for

4.3 Veracity of Data
The degree to which data is accurate and reliable is the biggest challenge of the application. To that end, Decibel.LIVE aims to ensure high accuracy of sensor data and low probability of incorrect inputs from a dishonest actor.
4.3.1 Dishonest Actors and Gaming the System
There are a few ways in which dishonest actors might try to game the system for their own ﬁnancial beneﬁt.
a) Joining the contract as beneﬁciaries when they don’t reside within the contract zone It is feasible that individuals might try to temporarily position themselves within the approved contract zone for the purpose of joining and thus beneﬁting from the contract. The incentives for doing this are minimal given that the individual(s) would need to be present within the contract zone for a reasonable amount of time to beneﬁt in any substantive way. However, this possibility does need to be considered and will be mitigated through authentication i.e. pre-issuing a unique passcode to each nearby resident which must be entered to join the contract.

6

b) Artiﬁcially distorting noise readings to increase payouts Individuals might try to increase the noise readings through a variety of techniques like pre-recording the noise closer to the sound source and playing it back, generating another noise source within their residence, blowing into the microphone on their smartphone to increase the sound pressure etc. These techniques will be mitigated through sophisticated analysis of sound snippets (short duration audio recordings of < 1sec taken at periodic intervals) for those noise readings that are identiﬁed as statistical outliers. Options such as banning the user for the duration of the contract or a ﬁxed period of time (e.g. 30 days) may also be considered. It is eventually planned that much of this process will automated using AI.
c) Joining the noise contract multiple times This will be resolved by allowing each resident to join the contract once only using pre-authentication techniques described above. In addition, GPS locations for noise readings will need to correspond to the beneﬁciaries location essentially eliminating the ability for a resident to join/monitor the contract on behalf of another nearby resident but all from their within the bounds of their own residence.
4.3.2 Calibration
Prior to capturing noise levels, the smartphone app performs a set of calibrations. Data from an improperly calibrated smartphone is misleading and not useful. GPS modules in modern smartphones have a very high positioning accuracy suﬃcient enough to calculate the distance from a noise site. The app correlates GPS data with known information to determine the veracity of noise events.
5. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we presented Decibel.LIVE, a noise monitoring and incentive platform which enables citizens monitor noise and report noise events to noise site owners on a private encrypted channel. Site owners can deﬁne compensation policies based on the loudness of noise. Decibel.LIVE helps citizens receive instant compensation from noise site owners when noise exceeds thresholds deﬁned by site owners.
6. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We express our gratitude to Dr. Ralph Muehleisen for help with signal processing and IIR ﬁlters. Thanks to Steve Anderson for long discussions on many of these ideas and thanks to members of the Ethereum community who have been generous with their knowledge.

7. REFERENCES
[1] D. A.Bies and C. H.Hansen. Engineering Noise Control: Theory and Practice. Spon Press, 1996.
[2] R. K. Andrew Miller, Iddo Bentov and P. McCorry. Sprites: Payment channels that go faster than lightning. February 2017.
[3] R. Chepesiuk. Decibel Hell: The Eﬀects of Living in a Noisy World. National Institue of Environmental Health Sciences, January 2005.
[4] L. B. Christopher D. Clack, Vikram A. Bakshi. Smart contract templates: foundations, design landscape and research directions. 2016.
[5] Ethernodes.org. Ethernodes.org. https://www.ethernodes.org/network/1. Accessed February 25, 2017.
[6] P. C. H. Hansen. Fundamentals of acoustics. pages 24–27, 1996.
[7] C. A. Kardous and P. B. Shaw. In Evaluation of smartphone sound measurement applications, March 2014.
[8] M. Loeb. Noise And Human Eﬃciency. Chichester: Wiley, 1986.
[9] N. Maisonneuve, M. Stevens, M. E. Niessen, P. Hanappe, and L. Steels. In Citizen Noise Pollution Monitoring, 2009.
[10] M. Meeker. Kpcb: Internet trends 2016 - code conference. http://www.kpcb.com/internet-trends. Accessed February 25, 2017.
[11] D. Radu, C. Avram, and J. Y. Adina Astilean. In Acoustic noise pollution monitoring in an urban environment using a VANET network, May 2012.
[12] S. Santini and A. Vitaletti. In First experiences using wireless sensor networks for noise pollution monitoring, April 2008.
[13] S. A. Stansfeld and M. P. Matheson. Noise pollution: non-auditory eﬀects on health. Department of Psychiatry, Medical Sciences Building, Queen Mary, University of London, 2013.
[14] C. J. e. a. Vallet M, Gagneux J. Heart rate reactivity to aircraft noise after a long-term exposure. in: Rossi g (ed) noise as a public health problem. milan: Centro recherche e studioamplifon. pages 965–75, 1983.
[15] G. Wood. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger. 2014.

7

APPENDIX

the use of band limited digital or analog ﬁlters. The second

A. GLOSSARY

involves the use of Fourier analysis where the time domain signal is transformed using a Fourier series. This is imple-

Blockchain A blockchain is an append-only distributed

mented in practice digitally (referred to as the DFT - digital

ledger of transactions. Transactions conﬁrmed and veriﬁed

Fourier Transform) using a very eﬃcient algorithm known

by multiple nodes (computers connected forming a blockchain as the FFT (Fast Fourier Transform).

network with the task of validating and relaying transac-

Hash function A hash function is a mathematical func-

tions) are recorded as ”blocks” which are added in a linear,

tion that takes an input of any size and produces an output

chronological order with each blocking linking its predeces-

of ﬁxed size.

sor forming a chain from the very ﬁrst block. Each node

Impulse A signal can be decomposed into a group of

gets a copy of the blockchain, which gets downloaded auto-

simple additive components called impulses. Generally, an

matically upon joining the network.

impulse is a short-duration time-domain signal. A unit im-

Direct Field A direct ﬁeld of a sound source is the area

pulse is a normalized impulse where sample number zero has

of the sound ﬁeld which has not suﬀered any reﬂection from

a value of one, while all other samples have a value of zero.

any surfaces or obstacles.

A unit impulse is also known as a delta function and is de-

Elastic Medium A substance or material (e.g., air , wa-

noted by δ(t) for continuous systems and δ[n] for discrete

ter) that can change its form as a result of a deforming force

systems.

but can return to its original form when the deforming force

Impulse Response Impulse response is the output signal

is removed. For example, a gas is an elastic medium as it

of a system when a delta function (unit impulse) is applied

can be compressed under pressure but will regain its former

as the input.

volume when the pressure is released.

Hashlock Hashlock is a type of restriction placed on a

ERC20 Token A de facto token standard to create digi-

transaction such that a user must provide the input string

tal assets one can purchase and own on the Ethereum blockchain. used to produce the hash which is part of the transaction.

The standard deﬁnes a set of function signatures such as

Oracle Oracles are special smart contracts that connect

send, register, delete, in the Ethereum contract ABI lan-

a contract on the blockchain with outside datasources.

guage. Using the ERC20 token standards, crypto currency

Signals and Systems In digital signal processing, a sig-

exchanges, users and applications easily interact with each

nal is a description of how one parameter varies with an-

other exchanging currency units, registering names, making

other parameter. For e.g., voltage changing over time in an

oﬀers on exchanges, and other similar functions.

electronic circuit, or brightness varying with distance in an

Free Field Free ﬁeld is a region in space where sound

image. A system is any process that produces an output

may propagate free from any form of obstruction.

signal in response to an input signal. A system is called

Frequency Analysis Frequency analysis is a process by

continuous if its input and output are continuous signals.

which a time varying signal in the time domain is trans-

For e.g., a voltage depending on time: v(t). A system is

formed to its frequency components in the frequency do-

discrete if its input and output are discrete signals. For e.g.,

main. There are two ways of transforming a signal from the

a stock price measured by day: p[d].

time domain to the frequency domain. The ﬁrst involves

Transaction A message from a user to be recorded on

the blockchain.

8

